feat(meshexternalservice): initial docs (#1816)
kumahq/kuma-website: app/_src/networking/meshexternalservice.md

In the future release a default [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) will be provided.

Once a [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) and a `MeshExternalService` is in place the following will happen:
- a hostname (or multiple hostnames if there are many `HostnameGenerators` matching) are generated using the specified templates
- a VIP is allocated from `242.0.0.0/8` range (can be changed by `KUMA_IPAM_MESH_EXTERNAL_SERVICE_CIDR` environment variable)
- Envoy cluster is created which will use endpoints defined in `spec.endpoints` as the [cluster endpoints](https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/latest/api-v3/config/endpoint/v3/endpoint_components.proto)

{% warning %}
Do **not** hijack original addresses like httpbin.com (the way it was done with [External Service](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/external-services)).
Hijacking the original address is like performing a man-in-the-middle attack so there is a high chance of something breaking.
If you need to transparently pass traffic through the Mesh without modifying it use [MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough).
{% endwarning %}

> For clients that the hostname is not fully known in advance please take a look at [Wildcard DNS matching in MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough/#wildcard-dns-matching).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For accessing entire sets of subdomains, take a look at [Wildcard DNS matching in MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough/#wildcard-dns-matching).
```

---
title: MeshExternalService
---

{% warning %}
This resource is experimental!
{% endwarning %}

This resource allows services running inside the mesh to consume services that are not part of the mesh.
The `MeshExternalService` resource allows you to declare external resources instead of relying on [MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough) or [passthrough mode](/docs/{{ page.version }}/networking/non-mesh-traffic#outgoing).

{% warning %}
Currently `MeshExternalService` resource only supports targeting by [MeshTrafficPermission](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshtrafficpermission) with [Zone Egress](/docs/{{ page.version }}/production/cp-deployment/zoneegress).
This limitation will be lifted in the next release.
{% endwarning %}

## Configuration

### Match

This section specifies the rules for matching traffic that will be routed to external resources defined in `endpoints` section.

> The only `type` supported is [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) and it means that it will match traffic directed to a hostname created by the hostname generator.

Reviewer: hostnamegenerator is not a policy

Author: we're just pointing to whatever is here https://github.com/kumahq/kuma-website/pull/1814#discussion_r1639391091

Author: ```suggestion
The only `type` supported is `HostnameGenerator` (this field is optional so can be omitted) and it means that it will match traffic directed to a hostname created by the hostname generator. 
```

> The only `type` supported is [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) and it means that it will match traffic directed to a hostname created by the hostname generator.

Reviewer: If there's only one supported type should the type be optional?

Author: yes, let's make it optional

Author: https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/pull/10570/files

Author: done

```yaml
tls:
  version:
    min: TLS12
    max: TLS13
  allowRenegotiation: false
  verification:
    mode: SkipCA
    serverName: "example.com"
    subjectAltNames:
      - type: Exact
        value: example.com
      - type: Prefix
        value: "spiffe://example.local/ns/local"
    caCert:
      inline: dGVzdA==
    clientCert:
      secret: "123"
    clientKey:
      secret: "456"
```

When TLS is enabled but `caCert` is not set, the sidecar uses the [autodetected OS-specific CA](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/blob/aba6518fca65bc7ab52e5328eb686a51a6f98a53/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/certificate/cert.go#L12).
The user can override the default CA by setting the path in the environment variable `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_DYNAMIC_SYSTEM_CA_PATH` for the sidecar.

### DNS setup

To be able to access `MeshExternalService` via a hostname you need to define a [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) with a `meshExternalService` selector.

{% warning %}
Do **not** hijack original addresses like httpbin.com (the way it was done with [External Service](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/external-services)).

> If you need to transparently pass traffic through the Mesh without modifying it use [MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough).

Reviewer: Might be worth explaining why.

Author: added a note about hijacking original address - let me know if that is what you mean or please suggest something

{% endwarning %}

> For clients that the hostname is not fully known in advance please take a look at [Wildcard DNS matching in MeshPassthrough](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/meshpassthrough/#wildcard-dns-matching).

Reviewer: Might be worth adding a few lines after this to add info about what this is doing internally:

- one or multiple hostname are generated by using matching hostname generators
- vip allocated
- envoy service created which will use `endpoints` as the different endpoints

## Examples

TCP examples use https://tcpbin.com/ service which is a TCP echo service, check out the website for more details.
HTTP examples use https://httpbin.org/ service which is a website for inspecting and debugging HTTP requests.
GRPC examples use https://grpcbin.test.k6.io/ service which is a gRPC Request & Response Service.
You can use [grpcurl](https://github.com/fullstorydev/grpcurl) as a client, it is available in [netshoot](https://github.com/nicolaka/netshoot) debug image alongside other tools used in later sections.

> For the examples below the following `HostnameGenerator` will be used:

Reviewer: So there's no default hostname generator atm?

Author: I think te answer is here https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/pull/10478

Reviewer: Might be worth stating this in the docs that in future versions of kuma there will be a default HostnameGenerator

Reviewer: And write the docs in a way that will be easy to make this part optional

Author: > And write the docs in a way that will be easy to make this part optional

So you'd use the template that is suggested currently so we don't have to if/else the examples? Otherwise I'd just if/else https://github.com/kumahq/kuma-website/pull/1816/files#diff-8d43902ad147c9062f03d2eea50710e9ba83961b78556a27086f0e8b0b8a0d05R98-R131 this part.

{% tabs hostnamegenerator useUrlFragment=false %}
{% tab hostnamegenerator Kubernetes %}
{% raw %}
```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1
kind: HostnameGenerator
metadata:
  name: example
  namespace: kuma-system
  labels:
    kuma.io/mesh: default
spec:
  selector:
    meshExternalService:
      matchLabels: {}

>   template: '{{ .Name }}.mesh'

Reviewer: I'd stay away from this as an example as this may collide with default hostnames in older Kuma.

```
{% endraw %}
{% endtab %}
{% tab hostnamegenerator Universal %}
{% raw %}
```yaml
type: HostnameGenerator
name: example
mesh: default
spec:
  selector:
    meshExternalService:
      matchLabels: {}
  template: "{{ .Name }}.meshexternalservice"
```
{% endraw %}
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}"

### TCP

This is a simple example of accessing `tcpbin.com` service without TLS that echos back bytes sent to it.

{% policy_yaml tcp %}
```yaml
apiVersion: kuma.io/v1alpha1

> type: MeshExternalService

Reviewer: Your examples all add an `apiVersion` because you mix up k8s and universal format here

You can define TLS version requirements, option to allow renegotiation, verification of SNI, SAN, custom CA and client certificate and key for server verification.
To disable parts of the verification you can set different `mode` - `SkipSAN`, `SkipCA`, `SkipAll`, `Secured` (default).

```yaml
tls:
  version:
    min: TLS12
    max: TLS13
  allowRenegotiation: false
  verification:
    mode: SkipCA
    serverName: "example.com"
    subjectAltNames:
      - type: Exact
        value: example.com
      - type: Prefix
        value: "spiffe://example.local/ns/local"
    caCert:
      inline: dGVzdA==
    clientCert:
      secret: "123"
    clientKey:
      secret: "456"
```

When TLS is enabled but `caCert` is not set, the sidecar uses the [autodetected OS-specific CA](https://github.com/kumahq/kuma/blob/aba6518fca65bc7ab52e5328eb686a51a6f98a53/app/kuma-dp/pkg/dataplane/certificate/cert.go#L12).
The user can override the default CA by setting the path in the environment variable `KUMA_DATAPLANE_RUNTIME_DYNAMIC_SYSTEM_CA_PATH` for the sidecar.

### DNS setup

> To be able to access `MeshExternalService` via a hostname you need to define a [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) with a `meshExternalService` selector.
> In the future release a default [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) will be provided.
> 
> Once a [HostnameGenerator](/docs/{{ page.version }}/policies/hostnamegenerator) and a `MeshExternalService` is in place the following will happen:

Author: ```suggestion
To be able to access `MeshExternalService` via a hostname you need to define a `HostnameGenerator` with a `meshExternalService` selector.
In the future release a default `HostnameGenerator` will be provided.

Once a `HostnameGenerator` and a `MeshExternalService` is in place the following will happen:
```
